[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: When I was
a child and I first
saw an image of this
blue ball in space,
I thought, what a beautiful
spaceship this is.
What a wonderful playground.
I remember how I felt so
much connected to nature.
The animals were my friends.
I felt safe and fully loved.
>>When we are born, we
come in and incarnate on
to this planet, we
come into existence
as perfectly realized
Source, God-connected Beings.
And then something happens.
>>NARRATOR: It
happened suddenly.
My life became complicated.
A strenuous job.
Our son Moritz was born.
His father left us.
Material fears.
And bit by bit, I lost
my feeling of oneness
without even realizing it.
I only felt increasingly tired
and burned out over the years.
I blamed my daily
chaos as single mom.
Why I truly suffered,
I couldn't see it.
Or did I deny seeing it, because
evidence was ever present?
>>The oil spill reached
the shore of Mexico.
>>What we're facing
is a collapse
of the current financial system.
>>To extreme climate
change endangering--
>>A bomb attack in
the early morning
left numerous casualties.
>>The President announced
a war declaration against--
>>NARRATOR: I guess
I was paralyzed
by the vastness
of those problems,
being unconsciously convinced
I, as a single person,
can't change any of this anyhow.
So I cocooned in a
sort of hibernation,
being alive but asleep,
finally cutting out
the rest of any connection.
[BIRDSONG]
Till one day, my
son Moritz asked
me a seemingly naive question--
Mommy, when I'm grown up,
will we still be here?
The animals, the whole earth?
Because we're destroying
everything, aren't we?
It struck me in the
middle of my heart.
I didn't have any answer.
It was like a dam breaking,
a mighty wave of grief.
I had lost my source, felt
fully separated-- from myself,
my soul, nature, from God.
And I wondered, was it only me?
Or did many people
experience this separation?
Was this perhaps the root
of our destructiveness
towards each other, the
planet, towards ourselves?
This was my moment of no return.
It was time to wake up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I did something
completely crazy.
I took a vacation, scraped
my last money together,
bought a camera,
a journey diary.
And together with my son
Moritz, started to travel.
It was a journey
into the unknown,
to spiritual teachers,
scientists, visionaries,
a quest for the key
to feel one again.
And what I found in the
end was so much more
than I ever had hoped for.
My first insight
during this journey
was probably already one
of the most important ones.
It was no coincidence that I
started asking these questions
right now.
I was not alone.
>>I think that
humanity at this point
is on the verge of a rebirth.
We are experiencing collectively
a shift-- a slow but powerful
shift in the energies
of life on the earth.
So it's a time of birthing.
But as with all births, there
will be perhaps some drama
involved, and maybe even
a little discomfort, which
is true of all birth process.
But in the end, I
think we will find
ourselves recreated in the next
grandest version of who we are.
And I think we'll see many
shifts in that process--
a shift in the way we experience
ourselves financially,
politically, socially, and
spiritually-- and especially
spiritually.
>>NARRATOR: I learned that there
were many ancient prophecies
of indigenous cultures--
the Hopi, the Hindu
myth, biblical prophecies,
all are pointing
towards this big awakening.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The most popular seems to be
the Mayan calendar, a time
system which accurately
predicted solar eclipses
thousands of years
into the future.
The Long Count calendar ends
with the 21st December, 2012.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
>>NARRATOR: A new
consciousness of our time,
transformation, huge
changes ahead of us.
Some scientists say that the
increasing energetic changes
in our galaxy are supporting
us in this process,
helping our
consciousness to shift
to a complete new direction.
>>Our galaxy has a heartbeat.
In our terms, this heartbeat
is about 12,000 years.
And what happens is that
from the center of our galaxy
there's this emanation
of cosmic and gamma rays,
leads to changes
in our sun, which
leads to changes in our earth.
And what happens on the
Earth is a gradual movement
towards a reversal of
its magnetic fields.
The North Pole has
been actually shifting
about 70 or 80
kilometers every year,
and this is much quicker
than ever before.
>>The sun's activity
has been changing.
It's been very, very
quiet, and now it's
picking up again as we go
through the end of this cycle.
You have evidence of the
solar system is undergoing
some type of transmutation.
And it does seem that
a lot more people, even
in the modern, Western,
contemporary world,
are becoming aware of
synchronicity, telepathy.
It's almost as if the
sheath between the physical
and the psychic is becoming more
permeable, more subtle, more
available.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
>>So we cannot remain in denial
about ecological realities,
about war and terrorism
and fear that's out there.
But we can simply engage
in it in a different way.
Rather than seeing ourselves
as victims or aggressors,
we simply see it as part of a
releasing of an old paradigm
and an emergence
of something new.
So it's simply the caterpillar
going into the cocoon,
releasing its identity
as a caterpillar,
and then emerging when
it's ready as a butterfly.
>>Releasing old
convictions and creating
something completely new.
Sounds fascinating, yes.
But it also scared me.
I was wondering, are
we really capable?
Do we have any potential for
such a deep transformation?
Even me, being so often
already stressed out
by my daily business?
>>We're actually in
a type of a dream.
And when you look at the
idea that scientists tell us
we use about 5% of
our brain's capacity,
geneticists tell us
we're using about 5%
of our genetic capabilities
and 95% of the DNA
is actually dormant.
Now just imagine if the
rest of the 95% was sleeping
and we started to wake up
that potential inside of us.
>>The number of neurons
in the human brain
surpasses the number of
known stars in the universe.
As consciousness evolves,
as the challenges--
creative challenges--
for the brain increase,
we will form new networks and
that potential is in the brain.
We're literally on top
of a sleeping vastness
the size of the universe in
terms of possible connections
inside our heads.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>The conventional science
that we have learned
is a science of
victimization, meaning
that there are forces
outside of us that control
who we are such as our genes.
The new science reveals
quite a different story.
It says that our
genes are controlled
by our perceptions, how we
respond to the environment.
So it says if we change
our perceptions then
we change our genetics.
And when you understand
that, then all of a sudden
you realize that
you are actually
a master of your
biology, because you're
the one that's free
to change your beliefs
and your perceptions
and your emotions.
And when you do that,
you are in charge
of changing your own genes.
But some people don't want to
hear this, because in the end
it says then we are personally
responsible for our lives.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: For me,
a little sensation.
How often do I seclude
myself with the feeling
of helplessness
because my genes,
my story, my social environment
seem to have a hold on me?
And how breathtaking
is the prospect
to have the freedom to
create everything myself?
But what keeps us from
using our full potential?
>>Human beings are living in a
prison of their own creation.
But most people are
happy to rearrange
the furniture in the
prison cell and to call it
freedom, instead of
experiencing reality
as it is-- mysterious, alive,
shimmering, unpredictable.
Most of us, we have
settled for beliefs.
We prefer to live in
our belief about reality
instead of reality itself.
>>Like, you have a certain
belief about people
and life and death,
and everything
that you can imagine
you have a belief about.
And that belief sometimes
can be an expansive thing,
like I believe
anything is possible.
Or that belief can be
very limiting, I believe
life is hard and
difficult. That belief
is determined by
what's in your mind,
by the experiences
you've had in your life,
by the experiences your
mother and father have had,
your grandfather and your
grandmother, all the way back
into your lineage.
>>In multiple personality,
you change your mind
from one person and
actually then you're,
like, somebody very
different, another person.
So at first they were
thinking it was just the mind,
the psychology was changing.
But when they actually
looked at the body,
they found that the
body would change
when the mind would change.
You can have an
allergic reaction,
let's say, to strawberries
in the one personality.
And when you switch
the other personality,
that personality has no allergy.
They can eat all
the strawberries.
But when they switch
back in one or two
minutes to the
original personality,
just one strawberry will
cause a big allergic reaction.
So it says when
your mind changes,
you change your biology as
fast as you change your mind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Most of the healing is
called the placebo effect.
You can give a
person a sugar pill.
If they believe it's the real
pill, they will be healed.
And the point was
so what healed them?
Not the pill, the
belief of healing.
What most people are
not familiar with
is something called the nocebo.
And the nocebo is a negative
thought is equally powerful,
but it takes you in
the opposite direction.
A positive thought can heal you.
A negative thought can kill you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>As the light of
energy, the spirit,
the soul comes through
the body, the light
is like the light behind
a motion picture camera
projector.
It goes through the
filters of our mind,
the images in our mind, and
then projects out into space.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
>>[ARGUING IN GERMAN]
>>NARRATOR: So my whole reality,
the world I'm living in,
and how I perceive it,
all this was nothing
but a direct reflection of
my own restricting beliefs.
But what are the origins
of those belief systems?
How are they implanted into my
brain, my body, my behavior,
my life?
>>There are two
parts to the mind.
The latest development
of the mind
is just behind your
forehead, and it's
called the prefrontal cortex.
This is the seat
of consciousness.
Consciousness--
self-consciousness--
is your personal identity,
your connection with spirit,
your source.
This is you.
The rest of the brain is
called the subconscious brain.
The subconscious brain is
more like a tape player.
It records experiences, and
when you push the button,
it plays the tape.
Science is now recognized that
we are not running our life
with our conscious mind.
We only run our life 5%
with the conscious mind.
95% of our life comes from
the subconscious habits.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: I was
always wondering
why I had frustrating
relationships with men,
ending up in situations where
I felt totally left alone.
So by digging deeper, I
remembered a situation
in my childhood where I had
a conflict with my mother,
and she was so overstrained
that she left home and told me,
I'm leaving now and
will never return,
and it's all your
fault. So there I was,
six years old,
totally desperate,
crying, and thinking that
I'd just lost my mother.
And from that moment on, I
carried the belief I'm alone.
I have to carry
everything on my own.
>>Nature created the first
six years of a child's life
as a programmable state.
The child is in a
state of hypnosis.
Everything it observes,
it downloads as a program.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
>>And you hear parents
say to children,
you don't deserve that,
you're not lovable,
or you're a sickly child.
These words, if a
child is under six,
is a direct download
into the mind.
And this is the
mind that controls
you the rest of your life.
So even though you were
five years old when
your father yelled at you and
said you don't deserve that,
you can be 50 years old
and the subconscious
doesn't know past and future.
The subconscious only knows now.
Whatever I heard when I was
five is still now when I'm 50.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>People may ask, how do I
know what my subconscious
beliefs are, because I
got them before I was six?
And here's the fun answer.
You don't have to go
backwards to find out what
your subconscious beliefs are.
Remember, 95% of your life comes
from the subconscious programs,
meaning your life is a print out
of your subconscious programs.
The things that
work in your life,
you have programs
in your subconscious
that give you those good things.
The things you struggle
with, the things you
have to work hard for, why
are you working so hard for?
And the answer is because
in your subconscious
you have beliefs that don't
allow you to go there,
and so your conscious
mind is trying
to struggle against the belief
of the subconscious mind.
>>NARRATOR: Ruediger
Dahlke explained me
how our bodies are
showing us clearly
what beliefs we suppress
in our subconscious mind.
It clicked.
My permanent back
pain might have
to do with my
subconscious belief,
I have to carry
everything on my own.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[TRANQUIL MUSIC]
>>The human mind
is programmable.
The leadership of the
governments of the world
have known this for
hundreds of years.
So basically, it says, if you
want to control a population,
then you give them beliefs
of limitation, beliefs
that disempower them because
when they are disempowered,
when their beliefs
are, I can't do that,
or, I'm not good at this,
or, that's impossible to do,
when we say that in
our subconscious mind,
then we create a life that
exactly matches that belief.
>>That is a choice
that someone can make.
If you're making that
choice consciously, OK.
But I say that most people
aren't even aware that they're
making that choice.
>>The messages that we get
today from the government
and from the media is
that we should be afraid,
because the world seems
to be falling apart
and everybody is
getting nervous.
And we must be very
careful with that
because when we live in
fear we give up our power.
And so what I'm trying to get
people to understand is this,
I'm not afraid of the
world falling apart
because if it
doesn't fall apart,
we're going to go extinct.
So I welcome the falling
apart because this gives us
an opportunity to
create a better
world with new ideas and new
visions and not the old ones
that the current
institutions are holding.
[MUSIC]
>>In English, fear
is spelled F E A R.
And in English, we have
an acronym for fear,
Feeling Excited And Ready.
That's the acronym
I prefer to use.
So when I began to feel
fear about something,
I realize that there
really is nothing
to fear given who I really am.
But if I can think of myself
as feeling excited and ready,
then I can step into the
next moment of my life filled
with wonder and joy,
with the excitement
of a child ready
for the next moment
and what it's going
to bring me and what
I'm going to bring to it.
That is a life fully lived.
[WAVES CRASHING]
>>There's absolutely
no reason to think
that evolution would stop
here, with an eternal spirit
in a dying body.
[TRANQUIL MUSIC]
>>NARRATOR: So over
all those years
I had developed distorted
ideas about my reality
in my childhood, my
social environment,
through all the daily
influences that had shaped me.
My learned beliefs,
my limiting programs,
had put me into this deep state
of fear and disempowerment
from which I now suffered.
But the liberating insight
was, in truth, I still
carry the divine
potential within me, which
just waits for reactivation.
I felt closer to the goal of
my journey, to find the key,
how to reconnect to God.
But how can I dissolve all
those constricting patterns?
So I continued my
journey in search
for concrete solutions and
tool that might help me.
I learned about the root
causes for my suffering
and how to prevent it.
[MUSIC]
>>The root of all suffering
is the thought, I am my body.
The thought is fine.
Believing them is the problem.
If it's believed,
then hey, presto.
You exist as an individual.
And very quickly, the whole
program is downloaded.
>>When this feeling, this "I"
presence, or "I" existence,
get identified
with the body, that
is called the birth of the ego,
the feeling of an independent
"I am the body."
Now, once this "I am the
body" feeling becomes settled,
then other thoughts and concepts
can get attached to this root
concept, "I am the body."
And then all of this world
of diversity, multiplicity,
thought, feeling, emotion,
based upon you and me and others
comes into play.
>>This is my body.
And these are my feelings.
And these are my thoughts.
And this is my story, and
my children, and my family,
and my reality, and my work,
and my country, and my world,
and all of that is ego.
You just take out the "my."
So when "my" disappears,
then "I" disappears.
"Me" and "my" disappear.
There's no ego.
Then you're free.
[INSPIRATIONAL MUSIC]
>>Every moment of every day
of your entire life, reality
is happening.
And you experience reality
through hearing sounds,
through seeing movement,
color, texture, size, feeling
sensation in the body,
tasting, smelling.
>>Now the blessing, as well
as the curse, of human beings
is that in addition
to the capacity
to experience this
moment, we also
have a secondary
layer of experiencing,
which is like a commentary
on our immediate experience.
[INSPIRATIONAL MUSIC]
And the commentary is
running into thoughts
about the past, images of
the future, fears, desires,
evaluation, judgment.
It is this capacity to make
a commentary on reality
which allows us to
imagine a building
and then build the building.
It allows us to
imagine making a movie
and then to make the movie.
It allows us imagination
but it is also a curse.
This capacity to
think, to imagine,
makes a wonderful servant
if it can be used.
It makes a terrible master.
Most human beings,
almost all human beings,
have lost the capacity
to switch it off.
So the thinking process
is no longer something
useful to be used
in the right way.
It becomes a disease
like a television
that you can't
switch off anymore.
>>NARRATOR: A memory popped up.
Two months after Moritz's birth,
as his father suddenly left,
I became a queen
of drama and pain,
totally fearful about
my future with thoughts
like, I fail as a lovable woman.
And, I will end up all alone
as an overworked single mother,
trembling around in my head.
>>The thoughts
aren't the problem.
You see, thoughts are fine.
There will always be thoughts.
But it's gluing to them
if I think it's right.
That's the problem.
Just let the thinking
happen through your form.
If you believe what you think
is right, pain will come.
This has given rise
to wars, to nations
fighting against each other.
>>NARRATOR: Then I started
to learn how my mind exactly
sabotaged me with its
constant thoughts chattering.
In a way, how it
judges others, blames
them, how it deals
with emotions,
and desires what isn't,
and even resists what is.
>>Resisting what is, is a desire
for things to be different.
If you desire anything to
change, all that's happening
is you resisting whatever
is going on right now.
>>NARRATOR: I had so much
resisted my situation
to be a single
mother, which was so
far from the image of a perfect
family mother I had dreamed of.
>>So you would have to leave
the idea of perfection,
and come to terms with you being
a wonderfully imperfect human
being embracing this
life, every moment anew,
and surrendering to it,
and trying not to defend.
As long as we're
defending ourselves,
we are blowing it up.
>>We all do.
We all do.
We get caught in dramas
maybe for a few moments
or a few hours or a few weeks
or a few lifetimes, really.
But how long do you
get caught in it?
How long, when you knock
yourself down or get up
on your own cross, how long
do you need to stay there for?
That's the choice.
I can accept it as it
is, or I can dislike it.
I can judge it.
I hate it.
And that's the key, you see.
Because when you judge it or you
hate it, you're locked in it.
So choose acceptance.
Choose and love what is.
And that's a choice.
And that's the beauty of it.
This is the free choice planet.
This is the free will planet.
>>The one who is free is not
expecting anything at all.
They are really one with the
unfolding stream of life.
And they see the excellence of
the unexpecting consciousness.
[TRANQUIL MUSIC WITH RUSHING
STREAM]
[BELL TOLLING]
>>Every desire will only
satisfy for a while.
And the magic about desire,
the reason it works so well,
is that when desire is
satisfied, the piece that
comes when desire
is not running,
you think it's because
you got something.
You think it's because you
got the object of your desire.
It's not.
It's because there's
no desire running.
That's the piece.
There's no desire running.
>>We are so much conditioned
into the identity of need.
Always, I need something.
I need something.
And so we are moving
around like needy beings.
But your natural
being is without need.
And this is the wealth of
being, because it's not
lacking anything.
The rest is what we imagine.
>>So stop running desires.
Instead of going through the
desire for little bit of peace
until the next one
starts, fulfilling this
with serious effort, until
we get it again and there's
a little bit of peace
before the next one starts.
See through it.
Come on.
Drop the desires.
The peace is there all the
time, but we have ourselves
in this commercially
driven world.
We have ourselves
conditioned to believing
that the object of the
desire can make me feel good.
That's commercialism.
That's very effective marketing.
It's not true at all.
That's not how the mind works.
The mind does not need
an object to be still.
>>So free and rich is the
one who wants nothing.
Even from God, I
don't want something.
Otherwise, we are all beggars.
And begging is also a way in
which the Supreme can play.
It can play like
this for a while.
Nothing is forever.
Everything is for a while.
[TRANQUIL MUSIC]
>>NARRATOR: It was
a Buddhist monk
who shared with me one of the
most precious shortcuts, how
to dive directly into a
feeling of happiness and peace
from every desire.
Just sit quietly.
Relax and focus in your heart.
Now, think of all the
things in your life
that you can be grateful for.
I'm grateful to experience
this life in a body.
I'm grateful for the
breath flowing through me.
I'm grateful for my
nurturing relationships.
I'm grateful for the beauty
and abundance of nature,
for the animals who are
supporting the harmony
and balance of nature.
[WINGS FLUTTERING]
[INTENSE MUSIC]
>>Well, if somebody
judges someone,
you can always assume that he
has a very strong inner critic
and that it's out-projected
self-judgment or self-blame.
>>Judgments, really, they
are kind of an attribute
of the very much personal mind.
It's always judging,
always uncomfortable,
not comfortable with
itself, first of all.
And then it starts to pick
on the other, you see?
Then the other is
responsible for how I feel.
And the other is
doing this, and so on.
This is what comes up.
>>NARRATOR: During my
journey, I learned an exercise
which helped me to
understand and experience
how my judgments are
profoundly influencing me.
I look at this apple and
place a judgement on it.
This is a very ugly apple.
How does that make me feel?
Now, I shift my
judgment and think,
this is the most beautiful
apple I've ever seen.
And I look at the apple again.
And I see the beauty
of colors on the peel.
What a different experience.
>>Judgment can become
a process of separation
or a process of inclusion.
And the difference between
these two is just three words.
Only three words
is the difference
between a world of separation
and a world of intimacy.
So you can say the
words, she is so stupid.
These words create separation.
You can say, he is so kind.
She is so beautiful.
He is so pushy.
All of these words
create separation
with a positive or negative.
Add three words and
the separation is gone.
She is so stupid, just like me.
He is so kind, just like me.
She's so beautiful,
just like me.
He's such an idiot.
He's so pushy, just like me,
Three words is the difference
between separation and oneness.
You can't stop the
mind from judging.
Add three words
and that judgment
becomes a different world.
>>NARRATOR: Just like me.
Perfect idea.
But what if I still
get angry with someone
or have other
disruptive emotions?
How should I deal with them?
[ANGRY YELLING AND INTENSE
MUSIC]
>>Most people recognize that
becoming emotional, becoming
emotionally reactive is not
really a very helpful thing.
And so we have judgment, so
we have a certain resistance
to becoming very emotional.
On the other hand, we also
recognize that to feel deeply
is an initiation into
living more fully.
So we get these things mixed up.
The difference between
feeling and becoming emotional
is the attachment of a story.
The need to know why
I'm having this feeling.
>>NARRATOR: One day in Bali,
I made a trip with friends
to a waterfall.
Suddenly, my seven-year-old
son, Moritz, was gone.
For two hours I desperately
searched him in a rainy jungle,
finally, he came back
with two of my friends
who didn't tell me
that they would walk
with him to another waterfall.
Even now that he was back, I
felt anger towards my friends
and remembered an advice that
Arjuna Ardagh had given me.
>>When you feel
angry, see if it's
possible to feel the anger,
even to express the anger
for a couple of minutes.
[YELLING]
>>Oh, I feel so
angry I could kill.
Why?
What's wrong?
I don't know.
I just feel this way
and it feels good.
This is liberating.
If you enter into anger
without any story,
the anger becomes power.
The power becomes your
original nature, which is love.
If you enter into
anger with a story,
it's focused on something else.
Now there's blame.
You did this.
This is why I feel this.
And you made me feel.
And you enter into
an endless realm
now of action and response.
And so it goes on,
and on, and on.
Becoming emotional
will wrap you up more
in the traps of
the thinking mind.
Feeling deeply will bring
you home to yourself.
Your feelings become
a teacher, a guide,
when you can follow
them free of thought.
>>NARRATOR: Emotions, a
powerful source of energy
if I avoid to blame others and
to attach personal stories.
But what if I still do?
[INTENSE MUSIC]
>>Many of us hold the
grievances, the hurts
that we've had, inside
for generations.
Look at the wars that are
going on in the world.
People fighting
against each other
because they hold anger
towards each other.
I think one of the
most important tools
that we can develop
as human beings,
is something called forgiveness.
And even when we take that word,
we take the word for giving.
It literally means for giving.
And many times when
we're hurt, we shut down.
We contract.
We pull back and we
don't give anymore.
We don't give.
If somebody hurts us, we don't
want to give them anything
anymore.
We don't want to
love them anymore.
>>Where somebody did
something terrible to us,
and now I am a better
person than they
are, because of what they did.
And now, you can
see how great I am,
or you can see how sad
I am, or how my life is.
And the issue around forgiveness
that people don't understand
is that when you
forgive, you have
to let go of the
personality you created.
>>Now imagine loving that
image inside your mind.
That's a choice that you
could make right now.
You could love your mate, your
partner, your dog, anybody
who you've ever thought to be
hurt or angry about, you could,
right now, inside your own
mind, bring up that image
and make a choice
to love that person
or that thing or that place.
And that changes not only the
dynamics of the way you think,
but the way you feel, the
way you perceive life.
The way you experience
life is really that simple.
It's a thought.
>>When I forgive, I
let go of the past.
And when I let go
of the past, there's
no thing there, nothing.
So in the space of
nothing, all is possible.
This is the space in
which alchemy happens.
This is the place in
which magic happens.
which creation happens.
But you can't get to
magic and creation
without forgiveness,
forgiveness of yourself,
forgiveness of others.
And a great example from my life
was that my stepfather ran off
with the marriage counselor
that he and my mother
were seeing because of his
affairs with other women.
And then had an affair with the
marriage counselor and left.
Then the house burnt down.
Then my mother died.
And then he married
the marriage counselor
and moved back onto
my mother's property.
I found this unforgivable.
Like unforgivable.
I even told him to be ready
for when I was old enough
to come back and take
care of business, i.e.,
he experienced that I
threatened his life,
and he put a order of protection
against me with the police
because he believed I was
going to come back to kill him.
And as a young man, I had so
much anger and so much rage
towards this other man who
I perceived had destroyed
my mother, and my
life, and my sister's.
And for many years I carried
this anger in my heart
that one day I would
become strong enough,
and smart enough,
and powerful enough
to go back and take care of him.
I perceived myself as this
young knight thrust out
into the world.
The King ran off
with the evil witch,
and the castle
burned to the ground,
and now I was a pauper,
alone in the world.
So in finding my
forgiveness for him,
what I realized when I
finally found him and was
able to talk to him is that
I said, here's the truth.
The truth was is I
loved you so much
and my heart was so
broken when you left.
And my mother's
heart was so broken,
and it was broken because
we loved you so much.
And I turned that
love into anger.
And I realized now that you
weren't trying to hurt us.
Your life was just happening
the way it happened.
There was not intent
to do me harm.
And so I want you to know
that though I don't condone
those actions, I don't
like the actions you took,
I truly have found
forgiveness for you.
And I'm asking you to
forgive me for having
made you the enemy for so
long and put so much anger
and separation between us.
>> Sometimes we think it's that
person that I should forgive
or that I need to forgive.
And at the deepest level,
it's really self forgiveness.
I would say that's the core.
It's forgiving ourselves
for all the things that we
may have thought that
we did or didn't do,
or all the things that we may
have thought that we've said
or didn't say.
What's interesting is as you
step back in life far enough,
you realize that we've
all been that person who
was on the other side of
the equation at some point.
>> Being unwilling to
forgive everything,
and mostly yourself, is just
another way of not being
responsible for your own life.
>> I mean if
everything is energy,
not forgiving
keeps energy stuck.
>> NARRATOR: So forgiving
is truly important.
But what if I'm still
struggling with stuck energy
like anger, blame, or judgment?
Later on my journey I met Gary
Renard, a teacher of a course
in miracles, and he taught me
a meditation tool that helps.
If you feel like,
feel free to share it.
Take a deep breath in and out.
Now, close your
eyes and visualize
the person you project on
in front of your inner eye.
Look at him and see that
he or she is only also
longing for love.
Now, you say to him or her,
This peace, unfortunately
didn't last very long.
Thoughts came crowding
back, the doubts, memories,
the whole merry-go-round.
>> Most people in their
minds are relating everything
to the past or they're
looking to the future.
Everything that they
do in the present
is a mixture of what
happened in the past
and what they want to
create in the future.
>> NARRATOR: There is a name
for it, the monkey mind.
The endless chattering
in our heads.
>> Thoughts cannot
bring you to peace.
Thoughts will bring
you to more thoughts.
They'll introduce their cousins
and their cousin's children
and everything, and
then your next minute,
you have a whole
family of thoughts
that you have to take care of.
>> Scientists who've done some
research on this believe that
each of us talks about 400
words per minute to ourself.
And these are constantly
judging our environment,
they're assessing our
situation, they're
giving us strategies on
how to deal with people,
how to look, how to
act, how to feel.
These are all coming
from inside of us,
and most people are actually
running on automatic pilot.
>> A simple analogy is
that if I am driving my car
on the freeway of my life
but all I am doing is looking
in the rear view
mirror the whole time,
I am guaranteed to crash.
>> This machine of thinking,
thinking, thinking, of wanting,
of intending, of
attracting and manifesting,
this machine is something
you could be aware.
It's like a parrot on your
shoulder all the time telling,
oh, you should have more,
you should have more,
you should have better,
you should get more,
you should be more rich,
you should be more powerful.
It's all the time
saying these things,
and it drives you through life.
You can't switch it off.
It's biological.
It's genetic.
It's automatic.
You can't switch it off.
But in the moment
that you can observe
the activities of
thought as automatic,
something interesting happens.
You become now, that, which
is aware of the thoughts.
Now, the thoughts are there
wanting, creating, manifesting,
attracting, intending.
The thoughts are
there, and you now
realize yourself
to be that which
is aware of these thoughts.
You are no longer the parrot.
You become the
observer of the parrot.
Now this machine can keep going
and you are here, present.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the art is the beginning
to question your own mind.
To realize that the mind,
the thought process,
is something like
an insane relative.
Now imagine you have a
relative who you love,
it's part of your family,
you can't get rid of them
from your life.
It's your relative.
But the relative is a little
bit insane like a mad uncle.
So now you take the uncle to
the shopping mall for the day,
and the uncle is saying ah,
people are trying to kill me,
and oh, that woman
there, I think she's
working for the government.
The uncle is all the time
with these fearful fantasies
and thoughts.
We need a million dollars.
We have to get a million
dollars in the next 15 minutes
or we're going to die.
The uncle is all the time
saying these crazy things.
Now you can love your uncle.
Come, Uncle, let's go,
let's have some ice cream.
You don't have to listen to
everything the uncle is saying.
To realize that your uncle is
mad, but to love your uncle,
this is the beginning
of an awakening life.
>> So if you simply say thank
you for sharing-- that, to you,
is a funny way of
dealing with it.
OK, you're going to continue,
I know you're stupid,
you're an idiot, and
you're right up here
in one of these
centers operating.
I accept you and
thank you for sharing.
I'm going to continue to do
what I want to do and sense
I should do in spite of the fact
that you were talking really
loud inside my head.
>> And all of these thoughts,
they are pouring out
of emptiness like a vapor coming
off the surface of the ocean.
They just come.
You can find out, in fact.
If you are very, very quiet,
and then some thought come.
You see this thought, fine.
Where did it come from?
Be very quiet and follow and
see where did it come from,
and you'll find something out.
It comes from nowhere actually,
out of the emptiness it come.
[SINGING IN FOREIGN LANGAUGE]
>> RUEDIGER DAHLKE:
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> In the moment that the
plug is pulled on the thinking
machine, there is a flood
of creativity and energy
and generosity, and we see
that life is happening now,
beautifully.
>> NARRATOR: In a
book of Eckhart Tolle,
I found the perfect quote.
[MONKEY NOISES]
>> So this realization which
we pointing towards is actually
extremely simple.
Unbelievably simple.
So simple, in fact, that
it is beyond anything
that the mind can create.
Let's see how simple.
In this moment now, you can hear
the sound of his voice, right?
Just say that to yourself
wherever you are.
Just say to yourself,
"I hear his voice."
Simple.
"I hear the voice."
Now, the voice is clear.
It's this English sound.
The hearing is clear.
It's a combination of the
microphone and the recording
and finally arriving
to your ear drum,
vibrating, making
signals in the brain.
But who is this "I"?
For decades we have said the
word I, me, my life, my car,
my finances, my relationship.
Let's take the attention
now to this I itself.
The sound is heard.
Clearly, the sound is heard now.
Who's hearing it?
Really find out, not as
an intellectual pursuit,
but as a genuine inquiry.
Who is hearing this sound?
Does it require any thinking
just to hear the sound?
Does it require any
effort or decision just
to hear the sound as it is?
And is there any time
delay in your experience
between the sound and
the hearing of the sound?
And perhaps, we
begin to discover
that the simple process
of hearing, which
is happening all
the time anyway,
is thoughtless,
timeless, effortless.
And this, which is
hearing the sound,
is who you are, dear friend.
This, which is hearing the sound
now, is actually who you are.
What is that?
It's here now and now and now.
It's who you are.
It's easily overlooked, but
in relaxing into being this,
it becomes the fruit
of every longing,
the fulfillment of every
desire, and the awakening
from the dream.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And in now, it's
fantastic, it's beautiful,
there's nothing to fear.
It's all happening.
It's all like
making love to life.
That is the invitation of
awakening, the invitation
to live here in this.
To be awake in a dream.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> NARRATOR: At this point
of my journey, I understood.
In truth, there's
no one else but me
who's impeding my
own divine potential.
It seemed that I had finally
found the tools to regain
my connectedness to God.
But then I was surprised
by a revolutionary,
a fully new point of view.
>> We've been told by many of
the world's religions that we
are not one with God.
So we were born with a
natural fear of life,
because we stepped
into life feeling
that we were all
alone, and apart
and separate from the
God who created us.
That is a mistake.
That is an error.
That is a misunderstanding.
That is an illusion, the
illusion of separation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> NARRATOR: It was as if
someone had lifted the veils
in front of my eyes.
My separation was nothing
more than a chimera,
a mistake of my perception.
>> I am an aspect of God.
And all of us are-- every single
human being, and everything
that we see in all of life.
>> I am consciousness.
That is as honest and
straightforward as I
can tell you.
What I am, what all beings
are is consciousness.
>> I am an individualized
expression of source.
So source being the infinite
power and presence, the life
force that flows
through all things,
and it's like the drop
of water is to the ocean.
And the drop having the same
qualities of the entire ocean.
>> Love is our nature.
When you know who you are,
you know yourself as love.
Love is formless, timeless,
spaceless, overflowing itself.
>> Enlightenment means
simply to know who you are.
The simplest thing.
Not who you think you are,
not who other people told you
you are, not what your society
conditioned you to believe
you are.
For me, the human
experience is an opportunity
to discover that we are the
divine eternal principle.
>> The human experience
is an opportunity to play.
Primarily, it's about playing.
Playing can bring
pain and pleasure.
It's a mixed bag.
So with this spiritual
journey, the human experience
changes how it
feels to be human.
It's an exploration of
what really being human is,
which goes beyond experiencing.
>> And it's a divine journey
that goes on forever and ever.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> NARRATOR: What a place.
When I started to change
from the deepest core,
my whole perception of
whatever had happened
in the past, of
what is right now,
and of what might come in the
future completely shifted.
For the first time in my life,
all seemed to make sense.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> NARRATOR: Was that
the end of my journey?
Mission completed?
No.
I felt something was still
missing-- a bigger dimension.
So I decided to
continue my journey.
And once again, it was my
bag that triggered the way.
After carrying 50 pounds of
equipment through Indian terai,
I had almost no day
without severe back pain,
and finally got diagnosed,
a disc prolapse.
During an interview,
energetic healer Eric Pearl
invited me to help me
with my hurting back.
>> I'm not alone in this field.
I'm sharing it with you.
So you are now experiencing
something inside.
See that smile
that it gives you?
Something inside that
says, hey, I remember this.
This is me vibrating as light.
This is me vibrating healthy.
This is me returning
to my natural joy
and state of balance.
Any imbalances, which tend to
include pretty much most health
challenges, if appropriate,
vibrate out of your system.
Right where I hold
my hands here is
what triggers her
abdominal response.
Now, as we see,
nothing is separate.
>> NARRATOR: The pain was gone.
But how was that possible?
And what did he
mean with fields?
>> We have been led to believe
that we live in a physical,
mechanical world so that we
emphasize the material realm
and don't give much credit to
the invisible realm of energy.
Well, in 1930, this whole
belief system changed.
Because that's
when we understood
the nature of quantum physics.
And quantum physics
says that everything
is energy, even including what
we see as matter is energy.
>>Underneath what we know,
what we see are fields,
like the gravitational field,
like the electromagnetic field,
like the various quantum
fields, and like what
you come to know now, there's
also fields of information.
>>NARRATOR: Ervin Laszlo told
me that the American scientist
Cleve Backster had
run an experiment
by putting a lie detector
on a plant in his office.
>>He noticed some
curious things,
that the plants seemed to react
to what's happening to him.
And at one point, when he
was almost had an accident,
a car almost went
over him, the plant
had a tremendous reaction
at that very moment,
even though he was away from it.
Seems that the
plants are perceiving
through this
information field what
is happening, not only in
the immediate surroundings,
but with people and these things
with which they are connected.
Even when you cut off
a part of your body,
like your hair or the nail,
it's never completely separated.
>>All points seem
to have come out
of a single point
that used to be
at the center of our universe
that supposedly exploded,
the Big Bang.
Then all points, all particles,
all things in the universe
are correlated.
All things are entangled.
>>Everything is linked
with all things.
And all things form one
enormous dynamic whole
we call the cosmos,
the universe.
And that is our home.
>>There was a
belief in our world
that our thoughts
and our consciousness
are part of a chemical reaction
that comes from the brain.
And it's sort of suggesting
that, for example, when
you're listen to the
radio, the show comes
from inside the radio.
But just like the
radio, the brain
is actually
receiving information
and then translating it into
our physical expression.
So the brain is
important, but it is not
the source of information.
The invisible energy
field is information.
>>The totality of this
information, what it is?
It's in the Akashic field.
This is a cosmic
information field.
It has everything.
It has a memory of
all that happened.
It has the potential
to evolve further.
Isn't this a good description
of what, in the tradition,
we have called the mind of God?
The universe is more
remarkable [INAUDIBLE].
It also has consciousness.
It even has a divine
consciousness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>This is one of the most
important part of our evolution
right now, is that
realization that God doesn't
need to be some strange
entity or some strange force
that is outside of creation.
It actually is creation itself.
It's actually the
structure of space itself.
It is everywhere, and
it feeds everything.
>>NARRATOR: God is
all-encompassing energy field,
for which we,
everything in creation,
is always connected, meaning
the whole divine knowledge is
accessible for all of us at any
place anytime-- breathtaking.
But then, can I use
this divine knowledge?
Is it possible to read it?
>>In order to connect with
the source of creation,
we must go towards the center.
We must go towards
inside, which is
what all of the masters
that have walked the Earth
have tried to convey
to human beings.
Turn your sense inward.
And within that singularity at
the center of your existence,
at the center of all your
atoms is the connection
to all things, all knowledge.
All possibilities
are present there.
>>There's a point where we
can slow all of the thoughts
inside of our mind, all the
words, all the programs, all
the ego perspectives of
how you see the world.
And when we do that, and
we slow it down enough,
we can actually create
a communication link
to the spirit, who is
all-wise and all-knowing
and has been you forever
as an energy field.
>>It's like getting on
the internet and reading.
You didn't have to have
the prior knowledge.
You can pick it up
from the internet.
It's all there.
Same way this cosmic
internet, the Akashic field,
give you the information.
So Akashic experience
means reading the field.
>>All information, all
theories, all new understanding
emerges from that spark at
the center of our existence.
>>NARRATOR: So if
all this knowledge
is accessible within
me, couldn't I
act out of this divine spark,
create my whole life from it?
>>The process of awakening and
the process of transformation
is to come to that
space, to realize,
OK, I have had these
programs, and this isn't me.
So it's like an awakening.
And then the first step is
taking that ownership, which
is saying, OK, I'm
creating my experience
of reality, which means I
have the power to shift it.
>>NARRATOR: At this
point if my journey,
I felt with all
might it was time
to leave my cocoon, my
state of hibernation,
which had paralyzed
me and kept me
passive over all those years,
leave all this behind forever.
At just the right moment, I
now learned the most powerful
took, the Law of Attraction.
Or in other words, how
to become a magician.
>>There's a lot of
talk about the idea
of the Law of Attraction,
how we create,
we bring things into our life
to manifest what happens to us.
And when we look at
that energetically,
the truth is we are just
electrical magnetic energies.
That's really what we
are in a physics level
or at a spiritual level.
>>And that this energy
carries a frequency
and that we attract
into our lives
that which is in harmony
with our vibration.
>>Science has now proven
that even when we think,
our intention forms
vibrational patterns of light.
And that light
goes out, and when
there's enough thought
and enough intention
behind anything,
whether you perceive
it to be for our
higher good or not,
it begins to crystallize
and manifest into form.
So vibration is one of the
key aspects of existence.
>>[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>The love in the
heart is the love
that is at the core of
the process of creation.
It's the God force expressed
as your own essence, which
is loving.
And all the scriptural teachings
become the nature of reality
when you shift your identity
to your own divine essence.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>When someone tries to fix a
problem from the vibration that
created the problem, it's
an exercise in futility.
>>[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>You can literally sidestep
into a whole other dimension
of possibility in existence.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: I was at
the end of my journey,
and everything had changed.
I experienced myself as
one, healed, fully loved.
My helplessness had vanished.
I felt strong, connected to
an all-encompassing power,
and the first time
in my life, free.
I'm able to change
anything I want,
even things which seem to be
set in stone, unalterable.
And suddenly, I understood.
If I can do so, we all can.
>>Everyone is making a
difference everywhere they go.
And that's one of the
things that people forget.
They forget the
extraordinary difference
that they make every
single day on this planet.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>What if it were
possible that we
could upgrade our
mental software,
our emotional software?
We could upgrade
it to a place where
love was the operating system.
When you're in that feeling
of love, everything changes.
Your worldview changes.
Your beliefs change.
You can just fall in
love with someone,
and all of a sudden
you have happiness
at just waking up in the
morning and brushing your teeth,
because you're in love.
What if that was possible for
us as a whole human species
to actually integrate
and download
that software into our
hearts and our minds
and live life with that belief,
that everything in creation
was loving, that everybody
was kind, that everybody was
beautiful, and we all
got to play in a world
where we treated each other with
honor and respect and kindness?
And it starts today.
It starts right now
for you and for me.
And I honor you for being
willing to make a new choice.
>>NARRATOR: One night,
I had a wonderful dream.
Everything was aligned,
one-- I, all human beings,
the animals, nature, God.
It was like a huge, magic
globe, a beautiful spaceship
Earth in which only a
single energy pulsated,
connected to everything.
And then in this dream,
Moritz asked me again,
Mommy, when I'm grown
up, will we still
be here, the animals,
the whole Earth?
Because we're
destroying everything.
At that moment, I
knew the answer.
Yes, it's in our hands.
We are the creators.
We decide what we manifest
and what we don't.
So if we continue
our distraction,
it's only our own
responsibility, no excuse.
Our condition and
the world's are one.
Then let's change.
And we can make a
change right now.
So if you feel like
it, share with me
the following moment for a
collective manifestation,
making a dream come
true, a better world
created by all of us now.
I invite you to gently touch
the area of your heart.
Breathe in joy.
And exhale your gratitude
for being one with God
and a godlike creator
of everything.
Imagine that you hold
your Earth in the space
of your heart, this beautiful,
magic planet that gives us
light.
Breathe in joy.
Now, you send the loving
gratitude from your heart
to the Earth.
And wait till the Earth
sends you back love.
And she will always send
you love, because she's
nothing but love and loving.
Send your loving
gratitude to the universe.
And wait till you feel
showered back by love.
See a calm and harmonious
world blossoming
after a collective,
planet-wide awakening.
Fear of suffering and
dying become senseless.
Material fears
become unnecessary.
Fears of loss become needless.
See the whole Earth,
all of us, in bliss,
with the surprising
understanding
that our collective dream
is reality, a healed Earth,
all creatures living
in peace and respect.
We all back in love with
us and Mother Earth.
We are awake in the dream.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So that was the
end of my journey.
But the best of all is the
journey has just begun.
[MUSIC PLAYING]